UI: Vault UI custom messages documentation (#25638)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/ui/custom-messages.mdx

  - To **delete messages**, `delete` permission for the `sys/config/ui/custom-messages/:id` endpoint.

## Add a custom message

1. Navigate to the **Settings** section in the Vault UI sidebar and select **Custom
   Messages**.

1. On the **Custom messages** page, select whether you want the message
   to appear on the Vault UI login page or after a user logs in.

1. Select the **+ Create message** button in the toolbar to open the **Create message** form.

1. On the **Create message** form:

   - Select the locations where your message should appear.
   - Select the message type.
   - Provide a title and the message text. For important messages, we recommend
     keeping the text short and including a link to more information rather
     than writing a longer message that users may not take the time to read.
   - Set a start time when your message will publish. By default, messages
     publish at midnight in your local timezone.
   - Set an optional end time for the message. By default, messages do not
     expire.

1. Click **Preview** to see how your message will appear to users.

1. Click **Create message** to save your new message.

> ### Namespaces consideration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create messages for a specific namespace
```

Calling this section "namespace considerations" is misleading since we provide actual instruction in this section.

Child [namespaces](/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces) inherit all messages

> created on the parent namespace. For example, your cluster has the following

Reviewer: ```suggestion
created on the parent namespace. For example, if your cluster has the following
```

namespace hierarchy.

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
─ admin
    ├── finance
    └── marketing
        ├── digital-marketing
        └── events
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Custom messages created on the `admin` namespace apply to all child namespaces:
`fiance`, `marketing`, `marketing/digital-marketing` and `marketing/events`.

> To create a custom message intended to the marketing team but not for `finance`,
> you must log into the `marketing` namespace to create a message.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a custom message that only targets the marketing team you,
must log into the `marketing` namespace before creating your message.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To create a message under a specific namespace:

```

The example above is useful for illustrating the inheritance behavior, but specific instructions should be generalized whenever possible :)

> 1. On the Vault UI login page, enter `marketing` in the **Namespace** text
>    field, and select an authentication method to log in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. On your Vault login page, enter the namespace you want to target in
    the **Namespace** text field.
1. Select an appropriate authentication method and log in.
```

Stick to one instruction per list item when possible

1. Select **Custom Messages**.

1. Select the **+ Create message** button in the toolbar to open and fill out
   the **Create message** form.

> 
>    ![Custom message](/img/ui-custom-msg.png)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The screenshot demonstrates what a custom message looks like for a user who has logged in under the target namespace, not the create UI, so it belongs at the end when you discuss the results, not in the middle of the admin instructions.

1. Click **Preview** to see how your message will appear to users.

1. Click **Create message** to save your new message.

> The message banner will only appear when a user logged into the `marketing`
> namespace and its child namespaces. To verify, log into the `admin` or `finance`
> namespace to make sure that the banner does not show.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your new message only appears when a user logs into the targeted
namespace or one of its child namespaces. You can verify that your
message has the correct behavior by logging into an admin or parent
 namespace. The message should only appear when you switch to the
 targeted namespace.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ![Custom message](/img/ui-custom-msg.png)
```

Reminder that all images must have meaningful alt text. "custom message" doesn't convey anything useful to someone who can't see the image

## Edit a custom message

You can open the edit screen for a custom message in two places from the **Custom messages** page.

> From the additional options menu for the message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**From the additional options menu for the message**:
```

🤔 making the intro sentences bold might help them stand out a bit more visually so it's clear where each of the two options begin and end.

1. Find the custom message you want to edit.
1. Click the additional option button (three dots).
1. Select **Edit** from the dropdown menu to bring up the edit page.

> From the message details page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**From the message details page**:
```

1. Find the custom message you want to edit.
1. Select the message to open the message details page.
1. Click the **Edit message** button to bring up the edit page.
   After clicking **Edit message** in either of the options, fill in the information that you would like to edit for the custom message.

## Delete a custom message

<Warning title="Message deletion is permanent">
  Deleted messages cannot be recovered. If you delete a message by mistake, you
  will have to recreate it.
</Warning>

You can delete a custom message in two places from the **Custom messages** page.

> From the additional options menu for the message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**From the additional options menu for the message**:
```

1. Find the custom message you want to delete.
1. Click the additional option button (three dots).
1. Select **Delete** from the dropdown menu to bring up the delete confirmation modal.

> From the message details page:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**From the message details page**:
```

---
layout: docs
page_title: Manage custom messages
description: >-
  Use custom messages in the Vault UI to share system-wide alerts.
---

> # Manage custom messages in the Vault UI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Manage custom messages in the Vault UI

@include 'alerts/enterprise-only.mdx'
```

Use custom banners and modals in the Vault UI to share system-wide alerts for all Vault UI users.

<Tip title="Best practices for UI messages">

1. **Messages are sticky**. Users can only dismiss messages **temporarily**.
   The message reappears if the user refreshes their browser window or logs out
   of the current session.

1. **Messages are intrusive**. Limit the number of active messages to minimize
   the intrusion on users and reduce the chances that they will dismiss the
   message without reading it.

1. **Messages are inheritable**. Child namespaces inherit all messages created
   on the parent namespace. Take advantage of inheritance to reach the greatest
   number of users with the smallest number of messages.

1. **Delete old messages**. Vault supports a maximum of 100 messages per namespace at a
   time. Practice good message hygiene by regularly deleting expired and outdated
   messages.

</Tip>

## Before you start

- **You must have a Vault Enterprise license for Custom Messages.**

> - **You must have Vault 1.16.0 enterprise or higher installed.**

Author: @yhyakuna / @schavis I added this to Before you start - open your feedback!

- **You must have a Vault Enterprise license for Custom Messages.**

> - **You must have Vault 1.16.0 enterprise or higher installed.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **You must have Vault Enterprise 1.16.0 or higher installed.**
```

> - **You must have a Vault Enterprise license for Custom Messages.**
> - **You must have Vault 1.16.0 enterprise or higher installed.**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **You must have Vault Enterprise 1.16.0 or higher installed.**
```

  - To **delete messages**, `delete` permission for the `sys/config/ui/custom-messages/:id` endpoint.

## Add a custom message

1. Navigate to the **Settings** section in the Vault UI sidebar and select **Custom
   Messages**.

1. On the **Custom messages** page, select whether you want the message
   to appear on the Vault UI login page or after a user logs in.

1. Select the **+ Create message** button in the toolbar to open the **Create message** form.

1. On the **Create message** form:

   - Select the locations where your message should appear.
   - Select the message type.
   - Provide a title and the message text. For important messages, we recommend
     keeping the text short and including a link to more information rather
     than writing a longer message that users may not take the time to read.
   - Set a start time when your message will publish. By default, messages
     publish at midnight in your local timezone.
   - Set an optional end time for the message. By default, messages do not
     expire.

1. Click **Preview** to see how your message will appear to users.

1. Click **Create message** to save your new message.

### Namespaces consideration

> When you are running Vault Enterprise or [HCP Vault](/hcp/docs/vault) clusters,
> the custom messages created on a [namespace](/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces)
> are inherited by its child namespaces.
> 
> For example, your cluster has the following namespace hierarchy.

Reviewer 2: Let's adjust the paragraph a little.

```suggestion
Child [namespaces](/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces) inherit all messages
created on the parent namespace. For example, your cluster has the following
namespace hierarchy.
```

1. On the **Create message** form:

   - Select the locations where your message should appear.
   - Select the message type.
   - Provide a title and the message text. For important messages, we recommend
     keeping the text short and including a link to more information rather
     than writing a longer message that users may not take the time to read.
   - Set a start time when your message will publish. By default, messages
     publish at midnight in your local timezone.
   - Set an optional end time for the message. By default, messages do not
     expire.

1. Click **Preview** to see how your message will appear to users.

1. Click **Create message** to save your new message.

## Create messages for a specific namespace

Child [namespaces](/vault/docs/enterprise/namespaces) inherit all messages
created on the parent namespace. For example, if your cluster has the following
namespace hierarchy:

<CodeBlockConfig hideClipboard>

```plaintext
─ admin
    ├── finance
    └── marketing
        ├── digital-marketing
        └── events
```

</CodeBlockConfig>

Custom messages created on the `admin` namespace apply to all child namespaces:

> `fiance`, `marketing`, `marketing/digital-marketing` and `marketing/events`.

Author: Based on Finn's feedback from the other PR, there is a spelling error `finance`.

> `fiance`, `marketing`, `marketing/digital-marketing` and `marketing/events`.

Reviewer 3: fiance should be finance

To create a custom message that only targets the marketing team you,

> must log into the `marketing` namespace before creating your message.

Reviewer 3: remove "you, must" so it says "marketing team, log into"

   the **Create message** form.
1. Click **Preview** to see how your message will appear to users.

1. Click **Create message** to save your new message.

Your new message only appears when a user logs into the targeted
namespace or one of its child namespaces. You can verify that your
message has the correct behavior by logging into an admin or parent
namespace. The message should only appear when you switch to the
targeted namespace.

![namespace picker to change namespaces](/img/ui-custom-msg.png)

## Edit a custom message

You can open the edit screen for a custom message in two places from the **Custom messages** page.

**From the additional options menu for the message**:

1. Find the custom message you want to edit.
1. Click the additional option button (three dots).
1. Select **Edit** from the dropdown menu to bring up the edit page.

**From the message details page**:

1. Find the custom message you want to edit.
1. Select the message to open the message details page.
1. Click the **Edit message** button to bring up the edit page.
   After clicking **Edit message** in either of the options, fill in the information that you would like to edit for the custom message.

> 

Reviewer 3: this line is confusing -- I suggest removing "either of the options" so this flows more smoothly
